backend/README.md, before:

# Backend

AWS SAM backend for the application.

## Auth Overview

Two separate flows:
- Cognito (app authentication). The app gets Cognito JWTs and calls API Gateway with `Authorization: Bearer <token>`.
- Google OAuth (Gmail/Calendar access). The app performs OAuth directly with Google and sends the refresh token to the backend for storage.

### Token lifetimes (practical expectations)

- Cognito access tokens are short-lived (commonly 1 hour). The Electron app should use the Cognito refresh token to fetch new JWTs without a new login.
- Cognito refresh tokens are long-lived (commonly 30 days, configurable). Store them in the app and refresh silently.
- Google refresh tokens are long-lived but can be revoked by the user or Google. When that happens, you must prompt the user to re-connect Google.

## Google OAuth (Desktop App + PKCE)

For Electron, use a Google OAuth **Desktop app** client with PKCE. No client secret is required.

Callback (loopback):
- `http://127.0.0.1:<port>/auth/google/callback`

The callback is the redirect target Google sends the user to after consent. Your app listens for it and exchanges the code for tokens.

### PKCE in plain terms

PKCE is a safer OAuth flow for public clients (like Electron) that cannot keep secrets.
- The client generates a random `code_verifier`.
- It derives a `code_challenge` from that verifier and sends the challenge to Google.
- When Google returns an auth `code`, the client sends the original `code_verifier` to redeem it.
- Google checks the verifier matches the challenge, preventing code interception.

### Electron client flow (minimal)

1) Create `code_verifier` (random 32-64 chars) and `code_challenge` (SHA-256 + base64url).
2) Open the auth URL in a browser window.
3) Google redirects to your callback with `?code=...&state=...`.
4) Exchange `code` + `code_verifier` for tokens.
5) Send `refresh_token` to `POST /integrations/google/token`.

Example authorization URL (fill in your values):
```
https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth
  ?client_id=YOUR_DESKTOP_CLIENT_ID
  &redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A4387%2Fauth%2Fgoogle%2Fcallback
  &response_type=code
  &scope=openid%20email%20profile%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fcalendar.readonly
  &code_challenge=YOUR_CODE_CHALLENGE
  &code_challenge_method=S256
  &access_type=offline
  &prompt=consent
  &state=RANDOM_STATE
```

## Transcribe Streaming (direct from Electron)

For lowest latency, the Electron app can stream audio directly to Amazon Transcribe using Cognito Identity Pool credentials, then send the final transcript to the backend for Bedrock processing.

### Identity Pool permissions (minimal)

The authenticated role needs:
- `transcribe:StartStreamTranscription`
- `transcribe:StartStreamTranscriptionWebSocket`

These are already wired in `backend/template.yaml` under `CognitoIdentityPoolAuthenticatedRole`.

### Backend endpoint (spec only)

Recommended endpoint for the final transcript:
- `POST /transcripts/process`

The backend would:
1) Call Bedrock with the transcript.
2) Validate against `backend/schemas/secondbrain.v1.json`.
3) Return the structured JSON envelope.

### Scopes (examples)
- Identity: `openid email profile`
- Calendar read: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly`
- Calendar read/write: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events`
- Gmail read: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly`
- Gmail modify: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify`
- Gmail send: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send`

### Token Storage

The backend stores Google refresh tokens in the integrations table. The row is keyed by the Cognito user id:
- `pk = user#<cognito_sub>`
- `sk = integration#google`

The handler also writes a short-lived retired-token record on rotation:
- `sk = integration#google#retired#<timestamp>` with `ttl` for cleanup.

If Google rejects a refresh token (`invalid_grant`), the backend returns 401 and the app should prompt the user to reconnect Google.

Endpoints:
- `POST /integrations/google/token` stores the refresh token and metadata.
- `GET /integrations/google/token` returns connection status.
- `DELETE /integrations/google/token` removes the token.
- `GET /integrations/google/gmail/labels` sample Gmail API call (uses refresh + access token flow).

### Backend refresh architecture (modular)

1) Store refresh tokens per provider in the integrations table.
2) Backend refreshes access tokens on demand via a provider-agnostic interface.
3) Provider API calls happen after refresh, using the short-lived access token.

This scales to other providers by adding:
- A new `integration#<provider>` row.
- A new provider refresh helper and registering it.
- A new sample endpoint (or shared handler) for its API.

Provider refresh entry point:
- `backend/src/lib/oauth_refresh.py`

## Second Brain schema (future)

The JSON envelope and schema live here for future Bedrock tool-use integration:
- `backend/schemas/secondbrain.v1.json`

## DynamoDB Tables

- `DynamoDBTable` holds core app data (nodes, etc).
- `IntegrationsTable` holds OAuth integration tokens and metadata.

Both tables use the same `pk = user#<cognito_sub>` convention so data can be linked by the user id.

## Setup

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Deployment

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

You will need:
- An AWS account and AWS CLI configured (`aws configure`).
- A Google OAuth consent screen and Desktop app client in Google Cloud Console.

Google Console setup checklist:
- Create OAuth consent screen (External).
- Add scopes you need (Gmail/Calendar).
- Create OAuth client ID (Desktop app).
- Use loopback redirect: `http://127.0.0.1:<port>/auth/google/callback`
- Copy the Desktop client ID into the SAM parameter `GoogleDesktopClientId`.

Reference:
- https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials


## Local Development

```bash
sam local start-api
```

Commit message:

feat: unified merge - frontend-v2 UI + aws-transcribe backend integration
- Start from frontend-v2 (preserved UI exactly as designed)
- Added auth.js, transcribe.js, auth.config.json from aws-transcribe
- Added backend/ directory with Bedrock + DynamoDB handlers
- Updated package.json with AWS SDK dependencies
- Updated preload.js with transcription and ingest IPC APIs
- Updated main.js with transcribe session, API client, and handlers
- Updated app.js to wire real transcription + Bedrock ingest
- Replaced Sox audio recording with Web Audio API streaming
- Mock data kept as fallback for testing

backend/README.md, after:

# Backend

AWS SAM backend for the application.

## Auth Overview

Two separate flows:
- Cognito (app authentication). The app gets Cognito JWTs and calls API Gateway with `Authorization: Bearer <token>`.
- Google OAuth (Gmail/Calendar access). The app performs OAuth directly with Google and sends the refresh token to the backend for storage.

### Token lifetimes (practical expectations)

- Cognito access tokens are short-lived (commonly 1 hour). The Electron app should use the Cognito refresh token to fetch new JWTs without a new login.
- Cognito refresh tokens are long-lived (commonly 30 days, configurable). Store them in the app and refresh silently.
- Google refresh tokens are long-lived but can be revoked by the user or Google. When that happens, you must prompt the user to re-connect Google.

## Google OAuth (Desktop App + PKCE)

For Electron, use a Google OAuth **Desktop app** client with PKCE. No client secret is required.

Callback (loopback):
- `http://127.0.0.1:<port>/auth/google/callback`

The callback is the redirect target Google sends the user to after consent. Your app listens for it and exchanges the code for tokens.

### PKCE in plain terms

PKCE is a safer OAuth flow for public clients (like Electron) that cannot keep secrets.
- The client generates a random `code_verifier`.
- It derives a `code_challenge` from that verifier and sends the challenge to Google.
- When Google returns an auth `code`, the client sends the original `code_verifier` to redeem it.
- Google checks the verifier matches the challenge, preventing code interception.

### Electron client flow (minimal)

1) Create `code_verifier` (random 32-64 chars) and `code_challenge` (SHA-256 + base64url).
2) Open the auth URL in a browser window.
3) Google redirects to your callback with `?code=...&state=...`.
4) Exchange `code` + `code_verifier` for tokens.
5) Send `refresh_token` to `POST /integrations/google/token`.

Example authorization URL (fill in your values):
```
https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth
  ?client_id=YOUR_DESKTOP_CLIENT_ID
  &redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2F127.0.0.1%3A4387%2Fauth%2Fgoogle%2Fcallback
  &response_type=code
  &scope=openid%20email%20profile%20https%3A%2F%2Fwww.googleapis.com%2Fauth%2Fcalendar.readonly
  &code_challenge=YOUR_CODE_CHALLENGE
  &code_challenge_method=S256
  &access_type=offline
  &prompt=consent
  &state=RANDOM_STATE
```

## Transcribe Streaming (direct from Electron)

For lowest latency, the Electron app can stream audio directly to Amazon Transcribe using Cognito Identity Pool credentials, then send the final transcript to the backend for Bedrock processing.

### Identity Pool permissions (minimal)

The authenticated role needs:
- `transcribe:StartStreamTranscription`
- `transcribe:StartStreamTranscriptionWebSocket`

These are already wired in `backend/template.yaml` under `CognitoIdentityPoolAuthenticatedRole`.

### Backend endpoint (spec only)

Recommended endpoint for the final transcript:
- `POST /transcripts/process`

The backend would:
1) Call Bedrock with the transcript.
2) Validate against `backend/schemas/secondbrain.v1.json`.
3) Return the structured JSON envelope.

## Electron Auth (Cognito Hosted UI)

The Electron app uses the Cognito Hosted UI for login and listens on:
- `http://127.0.0.1:4387/callback`

Configure the Hosted UI domain + client ID in:
- `frontend/auth.config.json`

### Scopes (examples)
- Identity: `openid email profile`
- Calendar read: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.readonly`
- Calendar read/write: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/calendar.events`
- Gmail read: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.readonly`
- Gmail modify: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.modify`
- Gmail send: `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send`

### Token Storage

The backend stores Google refresh tokens in the integrations table. The row is keyed by the Cognito user id:
- `pk = user#<cognito_sub>`
- `sk = integration#google`

The handler also writes a short-lived retired-token record on rotation:
- `sk = integration#google#retired#<timestamp>` with `ttl` for cleanup.

If Google rejects a refresh token (`invalid_grant`), the backend returns 401 and the app should prompt the user to reconnect Google.

Endpoints:
- `POST /integrations/google/token` stores the refresh token and metadata.
- `GET /integrations/google/token` returns connection status.
- `DELETE /integrations/google/token` removes the token.
- `GET /integrations/google/gmail/labels` sample Gmail API call (uses refresh + access token flow).

### Backend refresh architecture (modular)

1) Store refresh tokens per provider in the integrations table.
2) Backend refreshes access tokens on demand via a provider-agnostic interface.
3) Provider API calls happen after refresh, using the short-lived access token.

This scales to other providers by adding:
- A new `integration#<provider>` row.
- A new provider refresh helper and registering it.
- A new sample endpoint (or shared handler) for its API.

Provider refresh entry point:
- `backend/src/lib/oauth_refresh.py`

## Second Brain schema (future)

The JSON envelope and schema live here for future Bedrock tool-use integration:
- `backend/schemas/secondbrain.v1.json`

## DynamoDB Tables

- `DynamoDBTable` holds core app data (nodes, etc).
- `IntegrationsTable` holds OAuth integration tokens and metadata.

Both tables use the same `pk = user#<cognito_sub>` convention so data can be linked by the user id.

## Setup

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Deployment

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

You will need:
- An AWS account and AWS CLI configured (`aws configure`).
- A Google OAuth consent screen and Desktop app client in Google Cloud Console.

Google Console setup checklist:
- Create OAuth consent screen (External).
- Add scopes you need (Gmail/Calendar).
- Create OAuth client ID (Desktop app).
- Use loopback redirect: `http://127.0.0.1:<port>/auth/google/callback`
- Copy the Desktop client ID into the SAM parameter `GoogleDesktopClientId`.

Reference:
- https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials


## Local Development

```bash
sam local start-api
```
